# Cloud Security
- Cloud Computing|A technology setup in which a third party owns and manages the infrastructure whose resources are then consumed by other organisations. #ref/2023/12/09/095245
- Cloud computing|Delivery of storage or computing services from remote servers online (ie via the internet). #ref/2023/12/09/125539
- Cloud Computing|The practice of using a network of remote servers hosted on the Internet to store, manage, and process data, rather than a local server or a personal computer. #ref/2023/12/09/124901
- Cloud Computing|Utilization of remote servers in the data-center of a cloud provider to store, manage, and process your data instead of using local computer systems. #ref/2023/12/09/101428
- cloud computing|A means to offer computing services to the public or for internal use through remote services. Most cloud computing systems are based on remote virtualization where the application or operating environment offered to customers is hosted on the cloud provider's computer hardware. There are a wide range of cloud solutions including software applications (examples include e-mail and document editing), custom code hosting (namely execution platforms and web services) as well as full system replacements (such as remote virtual services to host databases or file storage). (See SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS.) Most forms of cloud computing are considered public cloud as they are provided by a third party. However, private cloud (internally hosted), community cloud (a group of companies' privately hosted cloud), a hosted private cloud (the cloud servers are owned and managed by a third party but hosted in the facility of the customer) and hybrid cloud (a mixture of public and private) are also options. #ref/2023/12/09/130055
## My Notes
[Notes](mynotes/cloud-security-notes.md)
